
Write & Read File
Write a Python program that creates a file named hello.txt, writes the text "Hello, Python!" into it, and then reads the same content back and prints it.


1. Anagram Finder

Write a function find_anagrams(word_list) that takes a list of words and returns groups of words that are anagrams of each other.
Example:
Input → ["listen", "silent", "enlist", "hello", "below", "elbow"]
Output → [['listen', 'silent', 'enlist'], ['below', 'elbow']]


2. Word Frequency Counter

Write a Python function that counts how many times each word appears in a paragraph.
Ignore punctuation and case sensitivity.
Bonus: Sort the output by frequency (highest first).


3.Student Grade Analyzer
Create a program that:
Takes student names and marks for 5 subjects.
Calculates average marks and assigns grades:

A: 90+

B: 75–89

C: 50–74

F: Below 50

Displays class topper and subject-wise highest marks.

4. Custom Sorting

Given a list of names, sort them by length first, then alphabetically if lengths are equal.
Example:
Input → ["Zoe", "Alice", "Bob", "Eve", "Clara"]
Output → ['Bob', 'Eve', 'Zoe', 'Alice', 'Clara']


5. Bank Account Simulation

Write a class BankAccount with:

Attributes: owner, balance

Methods:
deposit(amount)
withdraw(amount)

show_balance()

Ensure balance never goes below zero.
Create multiple accounts and test transfers between them.
bsm-hecw-hpu


Easy----->
1.Even or Odd Checker
    Write a program that asks the user for a number and prints whether it is even or odd.

2.Positive, Negative, or Zero
    Write a program that asks the user for a number and prints whether it is positive, negative, or zero.

3.List Sum Calculator
    Write a program that creates a list of numbers and calculates the total sum using a loop.

4.Largest Number in a List
Write a program that takes a list of numbers and finds the largest number using a loop and conditionals.

Intermediate------>
5.Multiplication Table
    Write a program that asks the user for a number and prints its multiplication table up to 10 using a loop.

6.Vowel Counter
    Write a program that asks the user for a word and counts how many vowels (a, e, i, o, u) it contains.

7.Guess the Secret Number
    Write a program that stores a secret number and asks the user to guess it.
    Keep asking until the user guesses correctly.
    
8.Name Repeater
    Write a program that asks the user for their name and prints it 5 times using a loop.

Advanced-------->
9.Reverse a Word
    Write a program that asks the user for a word and prints the word in reverse order.

10.Shopping Cart Program
    Write a program with a list of fruits (e.g., ["apple", "banana", "mango", "orange"]).
    Ask the user to enter a fruit name.
    If it’s in the list → print "Available".
    If it’s not in the list → print "Not Available".





Read Line by Line
Create a file named data.txt with some text (you can add it manually).
Write a program that reads and prints each line one by one using a loop.

Count Words in a File
Write a Python program that reads a text file and counts the number of words in it.

Append Text to File
Write a program that appends "This is an appended line." to an existing file named notes.txt and then displays the full content.

Count Lines
Write a program to count how many lines are in a given file.    




1.Write a Python program that reads the content of source.txt and writes it into a new file called copy.txt.

2. Count Characters, Words, and Lines
Task:
Write a program that counts:
Number of characters
Number of words
Number of lines
in a file named data.txt.
Concepts:
File reading, splitting text, counting.

3. Search for a Word in a File

Task:
Ask the user for a word and check if that word exists in notes.txt.
Print how many times it appears.

Concepts:
Looping through lines, string search, count().

4. Remove Blank Lines

Task:
Write a program that removes all empty lines from data.txt and saves the cleaned text into a new file named clean_data.txt.

Concepts:
Conditional writing, filtering.

5.Write a program that reads a file and writes its content in reverse order (line by line) into another file.





Write a Python program to divide two numbers entered by the user and handle any division by zero errors.

Write a program that asks the user to input a number and prints its square root. Handle invalid or negative inputs properly.



1️⃣ Division by Zero
Write a program that asks the user for two numbers and divides them.
Handle the error if the user tries to divide by zero.

2️⃣ Invalid Integer Input
Write a program that asks the user to enter an integer.
Handle the error if the user enters a non-integer value.


3️⃣ List Index Error
Given a list [10, 20, 30], ask the user to enter an index and print the element at that index.
Handle the error if the user enters an invalid index.


4️⃣ File Not Found
Write a program to open and read a file called data.txt.
Handle the error if the file does not exist.


5️⃣ Multiple Exceptions
Write a program that asks the user for two numbers and divides them.
Handle both the error for invalid input (non-integer) and division by zero.